Becoming a better software developer isn’t easy. While there are plenty of
resources to help beginners understand some fundamental skills, this only
establishes a basic level of proficiency. Expert developers are orders of
magnitude more productive than even somewhat advanced beginners, but rarely
produce resources that help folks climb out of the vast chasm that represents
the population of intermediate developers.

Passive learning materials are of marginal assistance to intermediate
developers. While reading a new book or blog might help familiarize someone with
a new tool or technique, the gains from this are superficial and do not lead to
the sort of plateau-busting realizations that are necessary in order to break
through the many walls that stand between proficiency and mastery.

What intermediate developers really need is a bit of guidance to discover the
right kinds of problems to be working on, the sorts of things that will cause
them to ask the right questions, even if the answers to those questions lie
somewhere off in the distance. They also need support from other developers who
have traveled a bit farther down the path, so that they can learn about common
pitfalls or get warned about dead ends before barreling down them at breakneck
speeds.

Software development is hard, and that’s not likely to change any time soon. The
necessary complexity of most computing problems is significant enough that there
will still be more than enough challenges for a lifetime even if we never repeat
the same mistakes others have made. A single experienced developer can make a
massive impact simply by listening to what problems others are experiencing and
giving helpful feedback based on what he or she has learned the hard way. A
community of folks dedicated to providing the same sort of support is even 
better.

However, it isn’t sufficient just to have a group of people studying the craft
of software development: those have existed as long as software has existed and
if they were capable of closing this gap, they would have done so by now. A lack
of sufficient context is what most frequently leads to tribalism in software
communities, and the end result is a polarizing effect that causes direct harm
to real progress by generating far more heat than light whenever a certain tool
or technique is discussed.

It is necessary to seek deeper, more personalized connections so that both
student and mentor have a stronger shared understanding of the surrounding
context of any given problem.

RbMU exists because we understand just how much of an impact that software
developers have on our world. While technology itself is neutral, we feel like
given the skills and resources, those who write code can make a massive positive
impact on the way that we live our lives.  By empowering those who may not have
otherwise reached their full potential, we can touch the world in a much more
significant way as a community than any of us could on our own.

To sum it all up, we believe that teaching changes lives, and software changes
lives. So teaching software developers changes lives that change lives so that
we can change lives while we change lives. Of course, we also do this because
it’s fun. :)
